17.3 Changing Groups


# Managing File Group Ownership with `newgrp` and `id` Commands

## Changing the Primary Group Temporarily with `newgrp`
To create a file that belongs to a group other than your current primary group, use the `newgrp` command. This temporarily changes your primary group for the current shell session.

### Command Syntax
```bash
newgrp group_name
```


# Consider This: Changing the Primary Group Permanently

## Administrative Privileges
To permanently change a user's primary group, administrative privileges are required. This operation cannot be performed by regular users.

# Command to Change Primary Group

The `usermod` command allows the root user to assign a new primary group to a user. 

### Syntax
```bash
sudo usermod -g groupname username

sudo usermod -g research sysadmin
```

# 17.4 Changing Group Ownership

Used to change the group ownership of an existing file `chgrp`  

In Linux, the `chgrp` command stands for "change group". It is used to change the group ownership of a file or directory. Here's a breakdown:

- **Root User**: The `chgrp` command allows the root user to change the group ownership of a file to any group on the system.  
- **Non-Admin User**: Regular users can only use `chgrp` to change the group ownership of a file to a group they are already a member of.

### changing group ownership files and subdirectories 

the recursive option `-R`

```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ chgrp -R development test_dir
```

> the system provide another command that can show the file permissions `stat`

```bash
student@le24srv:~$ stat /tmp/filetest1
  File: /tmp/filetest1
  Size: 0               Blocks: 0          IO Block: 4096   regular empty file
Device: 252,0   Inode: 13022       Links: 1
Access: (0644/-rw-r--r--)  Uid: ( 1000/ student)   Gid: ( 1000/ student)
Access: 2024-12-03 23:06:39.325711068 +0000
Modify: 2024-12-03 23:06:39.325711068 +0000
Change: 2024-12-03 23:08:00.407554517 +0000
 Birth: 2024-12-03 23:06:39.325711068 +0000

```

# 17.5 Changing User Ownership

The chown command in Linux stands for "change ownership". It allows the root user (or a user with administrative privileges) to change the user ownership, group ownership, or both of a file or directory. Here's a breakdown:

ch: Abbreviation for "change."
own: Short for "ownership."


```bash
chown [options] [user][:group] file
```

> The chown command lets the root user change the user ownership of files and directories.
> A regular user cannot use this command to change the user owner of a file, even to give the ownership of one of their own files to another user
> Both root and file owners can use chown to change group ownership.

However, the chown command also permits changing `group ownership`, which can be accomplished by either `root` or the `owner` of the file.

first method is to change the ownership of the user 

```bash
chown user absolute/file/path
```

change both user and group it also requires root privileges 
 To accomplish this, you separate the user and group by either a colon or a period character. For example:

```bash
root@localhost:~# chown jane:users /tmp/filetest2
root@localhost:~# ls -l /tmp/filetest2
-rw-r--r-- 1 jane users 0 Dec 19 18:53 /tmp/filetest2
```



 f a user doesn't have root privileges, they can use the third method to change the group owner of a file just like the chgrp command. To use chown only to change the group ownership of the file, use a colon or a period as a prefix to the group name:

