# 17.7 Understanding Permissions


The descriptions of the permission types can be handy, but just themselves, they don't provide a clear description of how permissions work. To better understand how permissions work, consider the following scenarios.

To understand these scenarios, you should first understand the following diagram:

```bash

drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
drwxr-xr-x. 10 root root 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
```
‌⁠​​⁠
The relevant information is highlighted. The first line represents the / directory, with a user owner of root, a group owner of root and permissions of rwxr-xr-x. The second line represents the /data directory, a directory that is under the / directory. The third line represents the abc.txt file, which is stored in the /data directory.

## 17.7.1 Scenario #1 - Directory Access

Question: Based on the following information, what access would the user bob have on the file abc.txt?

read write execute 

## 17.7.1.1 Scenario #1 - Answer

Answer: None.

## _`Lesson Learned: The permissions of all parent directories must be considered before considering the permissions on a specific file.`_


# 17.7.2 Scenario #2 - Viewing Directory Contents

Question: Based on the following information, who can use the ls command to display the contents of the /data directory (ls /data)?

root user and bob 

# 17.7.2.1 Scenario #2 - Answer
Question: Based on the following information, who can use the ls command to display the contents of the /data directory (ls /data)?

```bash
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
drwxr-xr--. 10 root root 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
```
Answer: All users.

# _`Lesson Learned: The r permission allows a user to view a listing of the directory.`_


# 17.7.3 Scenario #3 - Deleting Directory Contents

Question: Based on the following information, who can delete the /data/abc.txt file?

root user 

# 17.7.3.1 Scenario #3 - Answer


Question: Based on the following information, who can delete the /data/abc.txt file?

```bash
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
drwxrw-rw-. 10 root root 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
Answer: Only the root user.
```

Answer: Only the root user.

user dont need permisiion to delete the file the write permission directory that the file is stored in is required to delte the file in the directory 

However, to delete a file, you must also be able to "get into" the directory. Since only the root user has x permission on the /data directory, only root can "get into" that directory to delete files in this directory.

Lesson Learned: The w permission allows a user to delete files from a directory, but only if the user also has x permission on the directory.

# 17.7.4 Scenario #4 - Accessing the Contents of a Directory

Question: True or False: Based on the following information the user bob can successfully execute the following command: more /data/abc.txt?

# 17.7.4.1 Scenario #4 - Answer
Question: True or False: Based on the following information the user bob can successfully execute the following command: more /data/abc.txt?

drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
dr-xr-x--x. 10 root root 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt
Answer: True.

Explanation: As previously mentioned, to access a file, the user must have access to the directory. The access to the directory only requires x permission; even though r permission would be useful to list files in a directory, it isn't required to "get into" the directory and access files within the directory.

When the command more /data/abc.txt is executed, the following permissions are checked: x permission on the / directory, x permission on the data directory and r permission on the abc.txt file. Since the user bob has all of these permissions, the command executes successfully.

Lesson Learned: The x permission is required to "get into" a directory, but the r permission on the directory is not necessary unless you want to list the directory's contents.

# 17.7.5 Scenario #5 - The Complexity of Users and Groups

Question: True or False: Based on the following information the user bob can successfully execute the following command: more /data/abc.txt?

Note that the /data directory has different user and group owners than previous examples
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root    4096 23:38 /
dr-xr-x---. 10 sue  payroll 128  03:38 /data
-rwxr-xr--.  1 bob  bob     100  21:08 /data/abc.txt


# 17.7.6 Scenario #6 - Permission Priority

Question: True or False: Based on the following information the user bob can successfully execute the following command: more /data/abc.txt?

Note that the /data directory has different user and group owners than the previous example
drwxr-xr-x. 17 root root 4096 23:38 /
dr-xr-x---. 10 bob  bob  128  03:38 /data
----rw-rwx.  1 bob  bob  100  21:08 /data/abc.txt