# Chapter 5 - Command Line Skills

This chapter will cover the following exam objectives:

2.1: Command Line Basics

Weight: 3

Basics of using the Linux command line.

Key Knowledge Areas:

* Basic shell
  Section 5.2
* Command line syntax
  Section 5.3
* Variables
  Section 5.4
* Quoting
  Section 5.6


# introduction 

The user has the ability to navigate the file system using the command line.
its importatnt knowing the CLI flexibility and mobility 

# 5.2 Shell 

The user inters a command in the terminal GUI and the command or instructions is passed to the shell.
The shell has a command line interpreter that translate the commands entered by the user 
bash most common used shell 
cash provides command history inline editing 

## The bash shell. 

It has the following populer features 

>**_Scripting:_** The ability to place commands in a file and then interpret them.
>This feature also has programming features such as conditional statements ability to create a function AKA subroutines.

> **_Aliases:_** create short nicknames for longer commands.

> **_Variables:_** used to store information for the bash shell and for the user 
>used to modify how commands and feature work and provide vital system information  

when the application terminal is running it displays the prompt  

prompt is a symbol or message that indicates the system is ready to accept commands 

The prompt structure 

`sysadmin@localhost:~$`

first part is the user name 
 
 `sysadmin`

 the second part si the system name 

 `localhost`

 the second part is the directory 

`~` this shows the home directory 

> /bin: Binary - Contains essential binary executables (commands) used by both system administrators and users.

>/boot: Boot - Contains boot loader files and the kernel.

>/dev: Device - Contains device files representing hardware devices.

> /etc: Etcetera - Contains configuration files for the system and installed applications.

> /home: Home - Contains user home directories, where personal files and settings are stored.

> /lib: Library - Contains shared libraries and kernel modules.

> /media: Media - Provides mount points for removable media (like USB drives).

> /opt: Optional - Contains optional software packages.

> /proc: Process - A virtual filesystem providing process and system information.

> /root: Root - The home directory for the root user (administrator).

> /srv: Service - Contains data for services provided by the system.

> /tmp: Temporary - Contains temporary files used by applications.

> /usr: User - Contains user utilities and applications, further divided into subdirectories like /usr/bin (user binaries), /usr/lib (user libraries), etc.

> /var: Variable - Contains variable files like logs and databases that change in size.

the tidle symbole is used for home directory 

## 5.3 Commands

`command [options] [arguments]`

command include ls list files 

options is used to modify the core behavior of a command 

arguments additional information 

### 5.3.1 Arguments

```bash
can be used to specify something for a command to act upon

the ls command can except multilpe arguments

`ls /etc/ppp /etc/ssh`

Argument this additional peices of infrimation that a command neew to work properly 

They can be  

>options/flags modify the commands behaves 
>usually preceded by a hyphen - or double hyphen 

>positional argument there are avalue slike filnames directoreies or other data that the commmands operates on 

#### 1. Basic Example (with a positional argument)

`ls /home/user`

* Command: ls (list the contents of a directory)
* Argument: /home/user/ (the directory to list)

#### 2. Using an Option/Flag (with an argument)
```bash
ls -l /home/user/
````

* Command: ls
* Option/Flag:
 -l (long listing format)
* Argument:
* /home/user/ (the directory to list)



#### 3. Combining Multiple Options

```bash
grep -i -r "hello" /var/log/
```

* Command: grep (search for a pattern in files)

* Option/Flag:
 
-i: Case-insensitive search
-r: Recursive search through directories

### Argument:

- "hello": The pattern to search for

- /var/log/: The directory where the search will take place

```

