14.1 Introduction

Typically the programs that perform these functions, such as web browsers and email clients, are reasonably easy to use. However, they all rely on an important feature: the ability of your computer to communicate with another computer. To have this communication, you need to know how to configure your system's network

14.2 Basic Network Terminology


Host: A host is any device that communicate via a network with another device end system 

network: is a collection of two or more hosts that are able to communicate with each other 

internet ; 

server; a host that provides a service to another host or client example a web server stores process and delivers web pages 
an email server receives incoming mail and deliver outgoing mail.

client : its a host that accessing a server.
client host 

router: also known as a gateway is a machine that connect host from one network to another network 
computer within the companny can communicate via local network 



# 14.3 Networking Features Terminology

packets: used to send network communication between host this are data that is broken down into smaller chunks 

ip address: is a unique number assigned to a host on a network 

mask: is a number system that can be used to define which IP addresses are considered to be within a single network
or subdivison of an ip network ist a used to divide larger networks into smaller more manageable segments 

hostname: Hostnames are translated into IP addresses before the network packet is sent on the network.

url:A Uniform Resource Locator (URL), also commonly called a web address,

DHCP: DHCP is a network management protocol used to automatically assign IP addresses, hostnames, and other essential network configuration parameters to devices (clients) on a network

## Key Components of DHCP

### DHCP Server
A server (often part of a router or dedicated software) that manages and assigns IP addresses and other configuration data to clients.

### DHCP Client
Any device (e.g., computer, smartphone, IoT device) that requests and receives network configuration information from the DHCP server.

### DHCP Lease
The time period during which an IP address is assigned to a client. When the lease expires, the client must renew it or request a new IP address.

### DHCP Scope
A range of IP addresses that the DHCP server is authorized to distribute.

---

## How DHCP Works

### Discovery
A client sends a broadcast message (`DHCPDISCOVER`) to locate available DHCP servers on the network.

### Offer
The DHCP server responds with a `DHCPOFFER`, proposing an IP address and other configuration details (e.g., subnet mask, default gateway, DNS servers).

### Request
The client responds with a `DHCPREQUEST`, accepting the offered configuration.

### Acknowledgment
The DHCP server confirms the assignment with a `DHCPACK` message, and the client can now use the assigned IP address and settings.

---

## Benefits of DHCP

- **Automation**: Simplifies IP address management by dynamically assigning addresses.
- **Efficiency**: Reduces configuration errors and IP conflicts.
- **Scalability**: Easily supports large networks with numerous devices.
- **Centralized Management**: All network configuration is managed in one place.

---

## Examples of Configuration Settings Provided by DHCP

- IP Address
- Subnet Mask
- Default Gateway
- DNS Server Addresses
- NTP (Network Time Protocol) Server


DNS : domain name system this provides services to translate domain names into IP addresses 

Ethernet: n a wired network environment, Ethernet is the most common way to physically connect the hosts into a network. Ethernet cables are

TCP/IP : The Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) is a fancy name for a collection of protocols (remember, protocol = set of rules) that are used to define how network communication should take place between hosts

# 14.4 IP Addresses

There are, in fact, two different types of IP addresses: IPv4 and IPv6

what is NAT network address translation its used by router to allow multiple device on private network to share single ip address to access the internet 


# 14.5 Configuring Network Devices

When you are configuring network devices, there are two initial questions that you need to ask:

Wired or wireless? Configuring a wireless device is slightly different to configuring a wired device because of some of the additional features typically found on wireless devices (such as security).

DHCP or static address? Recall that a DHCP server provides network information, such as your IP address and subnet mask. If you don't make use of a DHCP server, then you will need to manually provide this information to your host, which is called using a static IP address.

Generally speaking, desktop machines use wired networks, while laptops use wireless networks. Normally a wired machine uses a static IP address, but these can also often be assigned via a DHCP server. In almost all cases, wireless machines use DHCP since they are almost always mobile and attached to different networks.

# 14.5.1 Configuring the Network Using Configuration Files
/etc/
├── netplan/               # Netplan configuration (modern, default for Ubuntu)
│   └── *.yaml             # Configuration files
├── network/               # Legacy configuration (used in Debian/older Ubuntu)
│   ├── interfaces         # Main network configuration file
│   ├── if-up.d/           # Scripts for when interfaces are brought up
│   ├── if-down.d/         # Scripts for when interfaces are brought down
├── systemd/               # Universal systemd-based configuration
│   └── network/           # Directory for systemd-networkd configuration
│       └── *.network      # Network configuration files

# 14.5.1.1 Primary IPv4 Configuration File




# 14.5.1.2 Primary IPv6 Configuration File



# 14.5.1.3 Domain Name System (DNS)

lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root         39 Aug 27 14:25 resolv.conf -> ../run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf


# 14.5.1.4 Network Configuration Files
Name resolution on a Linux host is accomplished by 3 critical files: the /etc/hosts, /etc/resolv.conf and /etc/nsswitch.conf files. Together, they describe the location of name service information, the order in which to check resources, and where to go for that information.

changing a name host to ip address 