# 8.2 Globbing

glob character is referred to as wild cards 
this have special meaning to the shell 

> They are used to specify patterns that match files names in a directory.it allows you to execute commands that effect many files at once 

> For instance using glob characters it is possible to manipulate all files with a specific extension or with a particular filename length.

> They can be used by an command

# 8.2.1 Asterisk * Character

* Its used to represent zero or more characters in a filename.

**example**

display all files in the etc directory that begin with the letter t:

```bash
echo /etc/t*
```
For example, the following matches any filename in the /etc directory that ends with .d:

```bash
echo /etc/*.d
```

In the next example, all of the files in the /etc directory that begin with the letter r and end with .conf are displayed:

```bash
echo /etc/r*.conf
```

# 8.2.2 Question Mark ? Character

The question mark `?` character represents a any single character 
each question mark character matches a single character no more no less 

Suppose you want to display all of the files in the /etc directory that begin with the letter t and have exactly 7 characters after the t character:

```bash
echo /etc/t?????
```

Glob characters can be used together to find even more complex patterns. The pattern /etc/*???????????????????? command only matches files in the /etc directory with twenty or more characters in the filename:

The asterisk and question mark could also be used together to look for files with three-letter extensions by using the

```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo /etc/*.???                
/etc/issue.net /etc/locale.gen
```


# 8.2.3 Bracket [ ] Characters

This is called bracket expression this a list of characters and /or characters classes enclosed in brackets  

>Use bracket expressions to match single characters in a list, or a range of characters in a list.

[More info](https://docs.trendmicro.com/en-us/documentation/article/trend-micro-email-security-online-help-bracket-expression-a#:~:text=Bracket%20expressions%20are%20a%20list,of%20characters%20in%20a%20list.)

The square brackets [] character are used to match a single character by representing a range of characters that are a possible match characters.

**An example**

```bash
/etc/[gu]*
```

This matches any file that has a g or u as the first character and contains zero or more additional characters.

### Representing a range 

```bash
/etc/[a-d]*
```

The pattern above matches all characters begin with any letter and including  a to and d;


### range with numbers

Pattern displays any file that contains at least one number:

```bash
/etc/*[0-9]*
```

 Why No Matches?
The range [9-0] is problematic because:

Invalid Range: In ASCII (and character ordering in general), the characters are arranged sequentially. The character 9 comes before 0, so the range 9-0 is invalid. You can think of the ASCII values:
9 has an ASCII value of 57.
0 has an ASCII value of 48.
Since 9 does not precede 0 in the ASCII table, this range does not define any valid characters.

>Note
>The ASCII text table can be viewed in our virtual machines by executing the ascii command


# 8.2.4 Exclamation Point ! Character

Its used with conjunction with the square brackets to negate a range 

```bash
sysadmin@localhost:~$ echo /etc/[!a-t]*
/etc/X11 /etc/ucf.conf /etc/udev /etc/ufw /etc/update-motd.d /etc/updatedb.conf 
/etc/vim /etc/vtrgb /etc/wgetrc /etc/xdg
```

This matches any file that _**does**_not begin  with D or P 

```bash
echo /etc/[!a-t]*
````
### Components of the Command:

**`/etc/`**: 

This specifies the directory where you are looking for files. In this case, it’s the `/etc` directory, which typically contains configuration files on Unix-like systems.  

**`[!a-t]`**: 

The brackets (`[]`) define a character class. 

The `!` (or `^`, depending on the shell) inside the brackets negates the set, meaning it matches any character not listed in the range.  

**`a-t`**: 

Specifies the range from `a` to `t`. So, `[!a-t]` matches any single character that is not in the range of lowercase letters from `a` to `t`. This means it would match:

* Any uppercase letters (A, B, C, ..., Z)
* Any lowercase letters from `u` to `z`
* Any digits (0-9)
* Any special characters or symbols
 
**`*`**: 

This wildcard matches zero or more characters. Therefore, when used after `[!a-t]`, it means to match any characters that follow the first character that is not in the `a-t` range.


# 8.2.5 Listing With Globs

> The ls command is normally used to list files in a directory;

> Keep in mind that it is the shell, not the echo or ls command, that expands the glob pattern into corresponding file names

> if the echo /etc/a* command is executed, what the shell did before executing the echo command was replace a* with all of the files and directories within the /etc directory that match the pattern.

> So, if the ls /etc/a* command is run, what the shell would really run would be this:

> When the ls command sees multiple arguments, it performs a list operation on each item separately. In other words, ls /etc/a* is the same as running the following commands consecutively:

```
ls /etc/adduser.conf  
ls /etc/alternatives  
ls /etc/apparmor  
ls /etc/apparmor.d  
ls /etc/apt

```

Running the ls command on a single file results in the name of the file being printed; typically this is useful if the -l option is used to see details about a specific file:

what if the ls command is given a directory name as an argument? In this case, the output of the command is different than if the argument was a regular file:

If the ls command is given a directory name, the command displays the contents of the directory (the names of the files in the directory),

When the ls command sees a filename as an argument, it just displays the filename. However, for any directory, it displays the contents of the directory, not just the directory name.


in the end we use the `-d` option to stop the ls command from listing all files 


