fahad mohamed <fahad.mohamed@centria.fi> | Final Comprehensive Exam | Score: 56% | 28 correct out of 50
Graded: Dec. 4, 2024, 6:32 p.m.

CORRECT - See Section 2.4.2
Embedded Systems means:

   Systems designed to do a specific task on hardware optimized for only that purpose

CORRECT - See Section 2.4
Bundling utilities, management tools, and application software with a Linux kernel is called a:

   A distribution of Linux

CORRECT - See Section 2.3
Apple’s OS X is:

(choose three)
   A fully certified UNIX distribution
   Partially based on code from the FreeBSD project
   Tightly integrated with Apple hardware

WRONG - See Section 2.2
Microsoft Windows:

(choose three)
   Has a scripting environment called PowerShell
   Offers both desktop and server products
   Has a Linux compatibility mode

  section 3

WRONG - See Section 3.5
An interpreted programming language:

(choose two)
   Is converted into machine specific instructions as the program runs
   Requires a compilation step but no linking step

CORRECT - See Section 3.3.1
The two main families of Linux shells are:

(choose two)
   Bourne Shell
   C Shell

CORRECT - See Section 3.7.1
In virtualization, what are the host and guest?

(choose two)
   The host is the machine that runs the virtual machines
   A guest is a virtual machine

CORRECT - See Section 3.7
Cloud computing is:

   All are correct

# section 4

CORRECT - See Section 4.2.1
The Free Software Foundation believes that:

(choose two)
   Software should be free to share
   Software should be free to modify

# section 5

CORRECT - See Section 5.4.1
To be able to output messages to the screen, use the _______ command:

   echo

CORRECT - See Section 5.3.3
The _______ command will print a list of the commands that you've previously executed.

   history

CORRECT - See Section 5.4.1
HOME is an example of _________.

   An environment variable

# section 6

CORRECT - See Section 6.5.2
The directory where additional documentation for software packages most likely can be found is:

   /usr/share/doc

CORRECT - See Section 6.2.3
To start searching a man page, the first key you press is:

   /

WRONG - See Section 6.4.1
To get help on using the info command, execute:

(choose two)
   man info
   info info

WRONG - See Section 6.3.2
The _____ command can be used to find any file, not just commands or man pages.

   apropos / find


# section 7

CORRECT - See Section 7.2
The top-level directory on a Linux system is represented as:

   /

CORRECT - See Section 7.4
The ls command without options or arguments...

   ...lists the contents of the current directory.

WRONG - See Section 7.4.6
The command ls -S will sort files:

   size

# section 8

CORRECT - See Section 8.3
When using the cp command, you must provide both a source and a destination.

   True

CORRECT - See Section 8.2.4
Which command would list files that do not begin with a T or a W?

   echo /etc/[!TW]*

# section 9

WRONG - See Section 9.2
In general, for which of the following would you want to use lossless compression?

   A JPEG image/ text 

WRONG - See Section 9.3.2
Which command will show what is inside the compressed tarball with a name of foo.tar.gz?

   tar –t foo.tar.gz

WRONG - See Section 9.4
By default, the zip command replaces uncompressed files with compressed files.

   True / false

# section 10

WRONG - See Section 10.3
Error messages generated by commands are sent where by default?

   STDOUT /stderro

WRONG - See Section 10.8.4
Which of the following commands will display only lines that begin with test?

   grep *test file.txt  _/ grep '^root' /etc/passwd

WRONG - See Section 10.8.6
Which of the following commands will display lines that contain either start or end?

   egrep (start|end) file.txt/ grep -E '(start|end)' file.txt

# section 11

CORRECT - See Section 11.2
A file begins with #!/bin/csh. This means:

   Running the script will invoke /bin/csh to interpret the rest of the file

CORRECT - See Section 11.4.2
The if command looks for what exit code to consider a condition to be true?

   0

WRONG - See Section 11.4.2
The number of users logged in is in a variable called USERS. How would you test to see if there are 5 users logged in?

   test $USERS = 5

   if [ "$USERS" -eq 5 ]; then
    echo "There are 5 users logged in."
else
    echo "The number of users logged in is not 5."
fi


# section 12

CORRECT - See Section 12.6
Which of the following are valid partitioning types?

(choose two)
   MBR
   GPT

CORRECT - See Section 12.9
Software that allows hardware devices to communicate with the installed operating system is called?

   Drivers

CORRECT - See Section 13.3.1
The free command outputs statistics about:

   Memory usage

# section 13

WRONG - See Section 13.2
Which file contains the information passed to the kernel at boot time?

   /proc/kernel
   /proc/cmdline

WRONG - See Section 13.2
To make changes permanent for kernel parameter files found under /proc/sys, the following file can have entries added to it:

   /etc/sysinfo.conf

   /etc/sysctl.conf
# section 14

CORRECT - See Section 14.5.1.2
When issuing the service network restart command, which of the following occurs?

   ...takes down all network interfaces, re-reads all related configuration files and then the networking for the system is restarted.

CORRECT - See Section 14.6.6
Which of the following commands can be used to display socket statistics, and supports all major packet and socket types?

   ss
# section 15
WRONG - See Section 15.6
Which of the following commands will display the groups that the user bob belongs to?

   group bob

WRONG - See Section 15.5
Traditional UNIX systems allowed users to belong to how many groups?

   65,000  16 groups

WRONG - See Section 15.2.2
Sudo privileges allow users to execute commands as another user.

   False

# section 16

WRONG - See Section 16.3.6
Which option for the usermod command can be used to specify a user's group ID (either primary or secondary)?

(choose two)
   -g

CORRECT - See Section 16.3
Which of the following files contains user IDs?

   /etc/passwd

CORRECT - See Section 16.3.1
What directory contains a user's home directory?

   /home

CORRECT - See Section 16.2.1.1
GIDs under 500 (or 1000) are usually reserved for what kind of groups?

   System use
# section 17
CORRECT - See Section 17.6
A user cannot delete a file if they do not own it.

   False

WRONG - See Section 17.5
The chown command permits changing group ownership done by root only.

   True

CORRECT - See Section 17.2
Which of the following commands will list hidden files as well as their ownership?

   ls -la
# section 18

WRONG - See Section 18.2
Which of the following commands will set setuid for the /usr/bin/program?

   chmod 2755 /usr/bin/program
   chmod 4755 /usr/bin/program
   The 4 in 4755 represents the setuid permission.

WRONG - See Section 18.2
Setting setgid on a directory...

   ...will allow scripts in the directory to be executed as the group owner of the directory.
   "Files created within the directory will inherit the group ownership of the directory, not the group ownership of the creating user."

WRONG - See Section 18.5.1
Which of the following commands would create a hard link for link to file?

   ln link file

ln  file to link
