# 6.2 Man Pages

man pages manual pages

use cases 

* describe the features of commands
* basic description of the purpose of the command 
* details regarding available options 


# 6.2.1 Viewing Man Pages

man command exist using the q letter 

_consider this_

man command uses a pager to display documents 

what is a pager = a terminal pager is computer program used to view but not modify teh content of the text file 

ome basic movement commands in less and more include:

Space or f: move forward one screen
b: move backward one screen
Enter: move down one line
y: move up one line
g: jump to the beginning of the document
G: jump to the end of the document
q: quit the pager


# 6.2.2 Sections Within Man Pages


* man pages are broken down into sections 
* each section is defined to provide specific information 

first sectiion 

**NAME**

-- provides the name of the command and a very brief description 

**SYNOPSIS**

-- provides examples of how the command is executed 


[-3hjy] any of the options  are optional. You can use one multiple or non of them.

[-A number] The -A option is optional and also expects a number following it 

[[month] year] month and year are both optional but if you specify a month you will need to specify a year 

## synopsis for date 

* date [-nRu] [-I[FMT]] [-r filename] [-r seconds] [-v[+|-]val[y|m|w|d|H|M|S]] [+output_fmt]




date [-jnRu] [-I[FMT]] [-v[+|-]val[y|m|w|d|H|M|S]] [[[mm]dd]HH]MM[[cc]yy][.SS] [+output_fmt]
date [-jnRu] [-I[FMT]] [-v[+|-]val[y|m|w|d|H|M|S]] -f input_fmt new_date [+output_fmt]


**DESCRIPTION**
provide more details of the command 

**OPTIONS**

this information is found in the description section adn not in a separate option 

**FILES**

list the files that are associtaed with the command as well as a description 

# 6.2.3 Searching Man Pages

To search within a `man` page, here’s a step-by-step guide:

1. **Open a Man Page**: First, open any `man` page. For example, let's open the `ls` command's man page:
   ```bash
   man ls
   ```

2. **Initiate a Search**:
   - Type `/` followed by the term you want to search for. For instance, if you’re looking for information on “directory,” type:
     ```plaintext
     /directory
     ```
   - Press **Enter** to start the search.

3. **Navigate Matches**:
   - **`n`**: Press **n** to go to the next match.
   - **Shift+N**: Press **Shift+N** to go to the previous match.

4. **End of Matches**:
   - If no more matches are found, you’ll see a message like `Pattern not found (press Return)`.
   - Press **Enter** to dismiss this message.

5. **Exit the Man Page**:
   - Press **q** to quit the `man` page when you’re done.

By using these steps, you can quickly locate and review specific terms in lengthy man pages.


# 6.2.4 Man Pages Categorized by Sections

different types of commands 
* user commands 
* system commands 
* admin commands 

By default, there are nine sections of man pages:

General Commands
System Calls
Library Calls
Special Files
File Formats and Conventions
Games
Miscellaneous
System Administration Commands
Kernel Routines

determine which section a specific man page belongs

look at the numeric value on the first line of the output of the man page

To search for man pages by name, use the -f option to the man command
man -f = find or function  passwd

To specify a different section, provide the number of the section as the first argument of the man command
man 5 passwd

The -k option to the man command searches both the names and descriptions of the man pages for a keyword

k stands for keyword 

Meaning of "Apropos"
Origin: The term comes from French, meaning "to the purpose" or "appropriate."
Usage: In English, "apropos" is used to indicate relevance or suitability, often in the context of mentioning something that is pertinent to the subject being discussed.