# 6.3 Finding Commands and Documentation
The whatis command adn man -f returns what section a man page is stored 


This does, however, pose a bit of a problem: when the ls command is typed, which command is executed?


# 6.3.1 Where Are These Commands Located?

To search for the location of a command or the man pages for a command, use the whereis command
* source files adn man pages in specific location 

man pages seperated from commands they are typically compressed with a program called gzip 

ls: /bin/ls /usr/share/man/man1p/ls.1.gz /usr/share/man/man1/ls.1.gz

Components of the Output
ls:
This is the command itself, which is used to list directory contents.
/bin/ls:
This is the full path to the ls executable.
/bin: A standard directory that contains essential user binaries (executables) required for the system to function. The ls command is found here, meaning it can be executed from anywhere in the terminal.
/usr/share/man/man1p/ls.1.gz:
This is the path to a man page for the ls command.
/usr/share/man/: The directory where manual pages are stored.
man1p: This indicates it is a private man page for users. The "1" signifies that this is a user command (section 1 of the man pages).
ls.1.gz: The actual file name of the compressed man page for the ls command. The .gz extension indicates that the file is compressed using gzip to save space.
/usr/share/man/man1/ls.1.gz:
This is another path to a man page for the ls command.
man1: This indicates that it is a standard man page for user commands (also section 1).
This file may contain the same or similar information to the ls.1.gz in the man1p directory, but it could be the public version of the man page rather than a private version.


# 6.3.2 Find Any File or Directory

to find any file or directory use the `locate` command 

The locate command is used in Unix-like systems to quickly find files and directories by name. It relies on a database that is periodically updated with the paths of files on the system. Here’s a breakdown of how the locate command works and where you can find the database it uses.

c options is for count 
b  base names only 

sysadmin@localhost:~$ locate -b "\passwd"                              
/etc/passwd                                                                     
/etc/pam.d/passwd                                                               
/usr/bin/passwd                                                                 
/usr/share/doc/passwd                                                           
/usr/share/lintian/overrides/passwd