# 6.4 Info Documentation
The info command also provides documentation on operating system commands and features


# 6.4.1 Viewing Info Documentation

info command 

u undo 
L last prevuise page 


# 6.4.2 Navigating Info Documents


Shift+H 


# 6.4.3 Exploring Info Documentation


Instead of using info documentation to look up information about a specific command or feature, consider exploring the capabilities of Linux by reading through the info documentation. Execute the info command without any arguments to be taken to the top level of the documentation. This is a good starting point to explore many of the features offered:

# 6.5.1 Using the Help Option


Many commands will provide basic information, very similar to the SYNOPSIS found in man pages, by simply using the --help option to the command. This option is useful to learn the basic usage of a command quickly without leaving the command line:

These documentation files are often called readme files since the files typically have names such as README or readme.txt. The location of these files can vary depending on the distribution that you are using. Typical locations include /usr/share/doc and /usr/doc.

Key	Purpose
H or h	Display the help
Q or q	Quit the help or manual page
Spacebar or f or PageDown	Move a screen forward
b or PageUp	Move a screen backward
Enter or down arrow	Move down one line
Up arrow	Move up one line
/ followed by text to search	Start searching forward
? followed by text to search	Start searching backward
n	Move to next text that matches search
N	Move to previous matching text


forward search 

There is no difference between man -k and the apropos command.

The different man pages are distinguished by "sections". By default there are nine sections of man pages:
Executable programs or shell commands
System calls (functions provided by the kernel)
Library calls (functions within program libraries)
Special files (usually found in /dev)
File formats and conventions, e.g. /etc/passwd
Games
Miscellaneous (including macro packages and conventions), e.g. man(7)>, groff(7)
System administration commands (usually only for root)
Kernel routines


There is no difference between man -f and the whatis command.