# 10.7 Filter File Contents

The grep command can be used to filter lines in a file or the output of another command that matches a specified pattern. That pattern can be as simple as the exact text that you want to match or it can be much more advanced through the use of regular expressions.

For example, to find all the users who can log in to the system with the BASH shell, the grep command can be used to filter the lines from the /etc/passwd file for the lines containing the pattern bash:

sysadmin@localhost:~$ grep bash /etc/passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
sysadmin:x:1001:1001:System Administrator,,,,:/home/sysadmin:/bin/bash
To make it easier to see what exactly is matched, use the --color option. This option will highlight the matched items in red:

sysadmin@localhost:~$ grep --color bash /etc/passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
sysadmin:x:1001:1001:System Administrator,,,,:/home/sysadmin:/bin/bash
Note
On our virtual machines, the grep command is aliased to include the --color option automatically.
In some cases, it may not be important to find the specific lines that match the pattern, but rather how many lines match the pattern. The -c option provides a count of how many lines match:

sysadmin@localhost:~$ grep -c bash /etc/passwd
2
When viewing the output from the grep command, it can be hard to determine the original line numbers. This information can be useful when going back into the file (perhaps to edit the file) to quickly find one of the matched lines.

The -n option to the grep command will display original line numbers. To display all lines and their line numbers in the /etc/passwd file which contain the pattern bash:

sysadmin@localhost:~$ grep -n bash /etc/passwd                          
1:root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash                                       
27:sysadmin:x:1001:1001:System Administrator,,,,:/home/sysadmin:/bin/bash
The -v option inverts the match, outputting all lines that do not contain the pattern. To display all lines not containing nologin in the /etc/passwd file:

sysadmin@localhost:~$ grep -v nologin /etc/passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
sync:x:4:65534:sync:/bin:/bin/sync
operator:x:1000:37::/root:/bin/sh
sysadmin:x:1001:1001:System Administrator,,,,:/home/sysadmin:/bin/bash
The -i option ignores the case (capitalization) distinctions. The following searches for the pattern the in newhome.txt, allowing each character to be uppercase or lowercase:

sysadmin@localhost:~$ cd Documents
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep -i the newhome.txt
There are three bathrooms.
**Beware** of the ghost in the bedroom.
The kitchen is open for entertaining.
**Caution** the spirits don't like guests.
The -w option only returns lines which contain matches that form whole words. To be a word, the character string must be preceded and followed by a non-word character. Word characters include letters, digits, and the underscore character.

The following examples search for the are pattern in the newhome.txt file. The first command searches with no options, while the second command includes the -w option. Compare the outputs:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep are newhome.txt
There are three bathrooms.
**Beware** of the ghost in the bedroom.
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep -w are newhome.txt
There are three bathrooms.