# 10.8 Basic Regular Expressions
10.8 Basic Regular Expressions
Regular expressions, also referred to as regex, are a collection of normal and special characters that are used to find simple or complex patterns, respectively, in files. These characters are characters that are used to perform a particular matching function in a search.

Normal characters are alphanumeric characters which match themselves. For example, an a would match an a. Special characters have special meanings when used within patterns by commands like the grep command. They behave in a more complex manner and do not match themselves.

There are both Basic Regular Expressions (available to a wide variety of Linux commands) and Extended Regular Expressions (available to more advanced Linux commands). Basic Regular Expressions include the following:

Character	Matches
.	Any single character
[ ]	
A list or range of characters to match one character

If the first character within the brackets is the caret ^, it means any character not in the list

*	The previous character repeated zero or more times
^	If the first character in the pattern, the pattern must be at the beginning of the line to match, otherwise just a literal ^ character
$	If the last character in the pattern, the pattern must be at the end of the line to match, otherwise just a literal $ character
The grep command is just one of the many commands that support regular expressions. Some other commands include the more and less commands.

While some of the regular expressions are unnecessarily quoted with single quotes, it is good practice to use single quotes around regular expressions to prevent the shell from trying to interpret special meaning from them.

# 10.8.1 The Period . Character


One of the most useful expressions is the period . character. It matches any character except for the new line character. Consider the unfiltered contents of the ~/Documents/red.txt file:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ cat red.txt
red
reef
rot
reeed
rd
rod
roof
reed
root
reel
read      
The pattern r..f would find any line that contained the letter r followed by exactly two characters and then the letter f:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 'r..f' red.txt
reef
roof
The line does not have to be an exact match, it simply must contain the pattern, as seen here when r..t is searched for in the /etc/passwd file:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 'r..t' /etc/passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
operator:x:1000:37::/root:
The period character can be used any number of times. To find all words that have at least four characters, the following pattern can be used:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep '....' red.txt
reef
reeed
roof
reed
root
reel
read

# 10.8.2 The Bracket [ ] Characters

When using the . character, any possible character could match it. In some cases, you want to specify exactly which characters you want to match, such as a lowercase alphabet character or a number character.

The square brackets [ ] match a single character from the list or range of possible characters contained within the brackets. For example, given the profile.txt file:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ cat profile.txt
Hello my name is Joe.
I am 37 years old.
3121991
My favorite food is avocados.
I have 2 dogs.
123456789101112
To find all the lines in profile.txt which have a number in them, use the pattern [0123456789] or [0-9]:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep '[0-9]' profile.txt
I am 37 years old.
3121991
I have 2 dogs.
123456789101112
Note that each possible character can be listed out [abcd] or provided as a range [a-d], as long as the range is in the correct order. For example, [d-a] wouldn't work because it isn't a valid range:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep '[d-a]' profile.txt
grep: Invalid range end
The range is specified by a standard called the ASCII table. This table is a collection of all printable characters in a specific order. You can see the ASCII table with the ascii command. A small sample:

      041  33  21  !                                 141   97  61  a 
      042  34  22  “                                 142   98  62  b
      043  35  23  #                                 143   99  63  c
      044  36  24  $                                 144   100 64  d
      045  37  25  %                                 145   101 65  e
      046  38  26  &                                 146   102 66  f
The ASCII value of the letter a is 97 while the value of d is 100. Since 97 is smaller than 100, the range a-d (97-100) is a valid range.

What about exempting characters?, For instance, to match a character that can be anything except an x, y or z? It would be inefficient to provide a set with all of the characters except x, y or z.

To match a character that is not one of the listed characters, start the set with a ^ symbol. To find all the lines which contain any non-numeric characters, insert a ^ as the first character inside the brackets. This character negates the characters listed:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep '[^0-9]' profile.txt
Hello my name is Joe.
I am 37 years old.
My favorite food is avocados.
I have 2 dogs.
Consider This
Do not mistake [^0-9] to match lines which do not contain numbers. It actually matches lines which contain non-numbers. Look at the original file to see the difference. The third and sixth lines only contain numbers; they do not contain non-numbers, so those lines do not match.

# 10.8.3 The Asterisk * Character

The asterisk * character is used to match zero or more occurrences of a character or pattern preceding it. For example, e* would match zero or more occurrences of the letter e:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ cat red.txt
red
reef
rot
reeed
rd
rod
roof
reed
root
reel
read
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 're*d' red.txt
red
reeed
rd
reed
It is also possible to match zero or more occurrences of a list of characters by utilizing the square brackets. The pattern [oe]* used in the following example matches zero or more occurrences of the o character or the e character:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 'r[oe]*d' red.txt
red
reeed
rd
rod
reed
When used with only one other character, * isn't very helpful. Any of the following patterns would match every string or line in the file: '.*' 'e*' 'b*' 'z*' because the asterisk * character can match zero occurrences of a pattern.

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 'z*' red.txt
red
reef
rot
reeed
rd
rod
roof
reed
root
reel
read
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 'e*' red.txt
red
reef
rot
reeed
rd
rod
roof
reed
root
reel
read
To make the asterisk character useful, it is necessary to create a pattern which includes more than just the one character preceding it. For example, the results above can be refined by adding another e to make the pattern ee* effectively matching every line which contains at least one e.

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 'ee*' red.txt
red
reef
reeed
reed
reel
read

# 10.8.4 Anchor Characters
When performing a pattern match, the match could occur anywhere on the line. Anchor characters are one of the ways regular expressions can be used to narrow down search results. They specify whether the match occurs at the beginning of the line or the end of the line.

For example, the pattern root appears many times in the /etc/passwd file:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 'root' /etc/passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
operator:x:1000:37::/root:
The caret (circumflex) ^ character is used to ensure that a pattern appears at the beginning of the line. For example, to find all lines in /etc/passwd that start with root use the pattern ^root. Note that ^ must be the first character in the pattern to be effective:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep '^root' /etc/passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
The second anchor character $ can be used to ensure a pattern appears at the end of the line, thereby effectively reducing the search results. To find the lines that end with an r in the alpha-first.txt file, use the pattern r$:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ cat alpha-first.txt
A is for Animal
B is for Bear
C is for Cat
D is for Dog
E is for Elephant
F is for Flower
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 'r$' alpha-first.txt
B is for Bear
F is for Flower
Again, the position of this character is important. The $ must be the last character in the pattern to be effective as an anchor.

# 10.8.5 The Backslash \ Character

In some cases, you may want to match a character that happens to be a special regular expression character. For example, consider the following:

 
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ cat newhome.txt
Thanks for purchasing your new home!!

**Warning** it may be haunted.

There are three bathrooms.

**Beware** of the ghost in the bedroom.

The kitchen is open for entertaining.

**Caution** the spirits don't like guests.

Good luck!!!
sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 're*' newhome.txt
Thanks for purchasing your new home!!
**Warning** it may be haunted.
There are three bathrooms.
**Beware** of the ghost in the bedroom.
The kitchen is open for entertaining.
**Caution** the spirits don't like guests.
In the output of the grep command above, the search for re* matched every line which contained an r followed by zero or more of the letter e. To look for an actual asterisk * character, place a backslash \ character before the asterisk * character:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep 're\*' newhome.txt
**Beware** of the ghost in the bedroom.

# 10.8.6 Extended Regular Expressions

The use of extended regular expressions often requires a special option be provided to the command to recognize them. Historically, there is a command called egrep, which is similar to grep, but can understand extended regular expressions. Now, the egrep command is deprecated in favor of using grep with the -E option.

The following regular expressions are considered extended:

Character	Meaning
?	Matches previous character zero or one time, so it is an optional character
+	Matches previous character repeated one or more times
|	Alternation or like a logical "or" operator
To match colo followed by zero or one u character followed by an r character:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep -E 'colou?r' spelling.txt
American English: Do you consider gray to be a color or a shade?
British English: Do you consider grey to be a colour or a shade?
To match one or more e characters:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep -E 'e+' red.txt
red
reef
reeed
reed
reel
read                     
To match either gray or grey:

sysadmin@localhost:~/Documents$ grep -E 'gray|grey' spelling.txt
American English: Do you consider gray to be a color or a shade?
British English: Do you consider grey to be a colour or a shade?